By now you've learned,
that you can build components in
React to develop user interfaces.
But how do React components turn into
the elements on the web page that you use.
Remember when your web browser receives
an HTML page, it constructs a DOM,
to represent it.
But updating the DOM is
considered expensive,
because it is very time intensive for
the web browser to do so.
Every time the browser DOM is updated, it
causes the browser to re compute the page.
Yet many big and popular websites
still load in no time today.
How can it be?
In this video, I will explain
how React solves the problem,
by computing its own virtual DOM.
Let's start with how React components
relate to the website displayed in
your browser.
A reality component,
has a one to one relationship to an HTML
element that is displayed on the webpage.
But how does React keep track of which
HTML elements need to be updated.
This is where reacts virtual
DOM comes into play.
When React builds out
its tree of components,
it builds out its own dome in
memory called the virtual DOM.
The virtual DOM is a representation of
the browser DOM that is kept in memory.
React uses this virtual DOM to update
the browser DOM, only when it needs to.
This ensures that your application is
fast and responsive to user input.
Let me explain how it works, React
checks to see if the HTML components in
the virtual DOM matches the browser DOM.
If a change is required,
the browser dome is updated.
If nothing has changed,
then no update is performed.
This process is called reconciliation.
Let's break down what happens when
you update a component and React.
Firstly, the virtual DOM is updated.
Then React, compares the virtual DOM to
the previous version of the virtual DOM,
and determines which
elements have changed.
The changed elements, and only those
elements are updated in the browser DOM.
Changes on the browser DOM,
cause the displayed web page to change.
In this video, you have learned that,
React constructs and
updates a virtual DOM.
So that the browser will only
update certain HTML elements,
instead of recreating the entire page.